---
title: "Site Organisation"
weight: 2
date: 2022-06-18
description: >
  How this manual is organised
---

This manual is organised by audience.  The [overview](/docs/overview/)
and [getting started](/docs/getting-started/) sections are applicable
to all users.  Other sections are focused on statistical practitioners,
developers or users new to Common Lisp.

<!--
### Core tasks
The sub-sections in [core tasks](/docs/tasks/) describe common tasks
for a statistical analysis workflow.  After reading these sections,
you should be able to perform a basic statistical analysis in most
scenarios.  These are task oriented documents, as opposed to system
oriented.
-->

### Examples
This part of the documentation contains worked examples of statistical
analysis and plotting.  It has less explanatory material, and more
worked examples of code than other sections.  If you have a common
use-case and want to know how to solve it, look here.

### Tutorials
This section contains tutorials, primers and 'vignettes'.  Typically
tutorials contain more explanatory material, whilst primers are
short-form tutorials on a particular system.

### System manuals
The manuals are written at a level somewhere between an API reference
and a core task.  They document, with text and examples, the core APIs
of each system.  These are useful references for power users,
developers and if you need to go a bit beyond the core tasks.

### Reference
The reference manuals document the API for each system.  These are
typically used by developers building extensions to Lisp-Stat.

### Resources
Common Lisp and statistical resources, such as books, tutorials and
website.  Not specific to Lisp-Stat, but useful for statistical
practitioners learning Lisp.

### Contributing
This section describes how to contribute to Lisp-Stat.  There are both
ideas on _what_ to contribute, as well as instructions on _how_ to
contribute.  Also note the section on the top right of all the
documentation pages, just below the search box:

{{< figure src="/images/report-doc-bug.png" >}}

If you see a mistake in the documentation, please use the `Create
documentation issue` link to go directly to github and report the
error.
